#summary How to use SVN as a contributor
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Why SVN ? =

First, SVN (as CVS and all other version control systems) is aimed to help people working together, on the same project. There's a central repository, on the server. But no one is working directly on the server (there's fortunately no way to do this). So, you first checkout a local copy:

   {{{svn checkout https://jallib.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ jallib --username <your_username>}}}

You'll need to use a generated password, this is *not* the password used with your Google account. See _Source_ tab.


This command says: "gimme the last revision copy on the trunk, please". You can specify a lot more, such as given a date, a given revision. So, in your "jallib", you should get the current SVN hierarchy.


= Absolute minimum SVN commands =


Once entered in the "jallib" dir:


 * get some information about your local copy
    
   {{{svn info}}}

 * update your copy

   {{{svn update}}}

 * check the current status of your local copy against the repos:

   {{{svn status      # shows what's changed on your local copy, without actually querying the server}}}

   {{{svn status -u  # same, but also query the server, potentially showing new/modifiedl/deleted files on the server. Modifications would appear in your copy if you 'svn update'}}}

 * show the difference

   {{{svn diff a_file   # show differences }}}

   Note: some of SVN commands, like _diff_, can take a date, a revision, or special keywords as argument. This is particurlarly interesting when you want to understand changes:

   {{{svn diff -rPREV afile  # shows diff between local copy and previous revision for this file}}}

   {{{svn diff -rHEAD afile  # shows diff between local copy and the last available on the server. Useful to know understand changes before an update}}} 
        
 * history of a file
 
   {{{svn log a_file       # show all revisions involved with this file, and commit logs}}}
   
 * add something new. This is only needed the first time:

   {{{svn add <a_file_or_a_dir>}}}

 * commit something, that is, sending your local modifications to the server so everybody can have access to your last work !

   {{{svn commit            # will commit all your modifications}}}

   {{{svn commit a_file   # commit just this file}}}

   You'll be asked to enter a message, a comment for this commit. Unless modifications are obvious, it's really important to describe _what_ are the modications and _why_ you've done such modifications (and not _how_).
    