#summary what have been tested with what...
#labels Phase-QA

= Description =

The following tables show tests the jallib team has been performed on several target chip, against multiple library. There are two main tables:

 * the first table, *PIC-specific tests*, shows the different test results related to PIC themselves. That is, this is where you'll find tests which validate each main registers, peripherals, ... are functional.

 * the second table is about *non PIC-specific tests*, usually higher level tests. Here you'll find test results about external libraries (see UnderstandingSvnStructure for more).

= Testing Matrix =

Legend:

 * *OK: <filename>* : test passed successfully, using this file
 * *KO* : test failed
 * *SD/X* : we did not performed tests in this chip, but it's on the same datasheet as another chip has been tested (reference X, eg. SD/16F88)
 * *n.a* : no test can be performed (not applicable)

PIC are listed in alphabetical order. The _device_ column specifiy the device file used. the _revision_ table specify the SVN revision from which file were used.

||device/test file    || revision            || device file         || blink              || adc                 ||comparator          ||data_eeprom         ||flash_memory       || i2c                 ||pwm                 ||spi                 ||timer               ||usart               || 
|| 16f88            || 233      ||   16f88.jal || OK: b16f88.jal    || OK: adc_lowres.jal    ||            ||                ||                ||           || OK: pwm_led_16f88.jal,  pwm_led_highres_16f88.jal, pwm_sound_16f88.jal  ||                    ||             || OK: echo.jal          ||
||16f877  || 234  || 16f877.jal || OK: b16f877.jal  ||   ||  || || || || || || ||
    



= "Hey ! My PIC is not supported ! =

Don't panic ! If your precious PIC does not appear in these tables, it doesn't mean it's not supported. It just mean we don't performed tests on this particular PIC. So, help us validating, and [http://groups.google.com/group/jallib send us] results so we can add new row ! 