<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="d0e925" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Named Constants</title>

  <body>
    <p>The complete format for defining a named constant is:</p>

    <codeblock>          CONST [type[*<i>cexpr</i>]] <i>identifier</i> [ '[' [ <i>cexpr</i> ] ']' ]
             '=' { <i>cexpr</i> | '{' <i>cexpr</i>1[',' <i>cexpr</i>2...]'}' | '"'...'"'}
             [ ',' <i>identifier2</i>...]</codeblock>

    <p>CONST</p>

    <lq>CONST denotes the beginning of a constant definition clause.</lq>

    <p>type[*<i>cexpr</i>]</p>

    <lq>Defines the type of the constant. If none is given, the constant
    becomes universal type which is 32 bit signed.</lq>

    <p>'[' [ <i>cexpr</i> ] ']'</p>

    <lq>Defines a constant array (see array variable types). A constant array
    will not take any space unless it is indexed at least once with a
    non-constant subscript. On the PIC, constant arrays consume *code* space,
    not *data* space.</lq>

    <lq>If <i>cexpr</i> is ommitted, the size of the array will be determined
    by the number of initializers used.</lq>

    <p>'=' <i>cexpr</i></p>

    <lq>For non-array constants this assigns the value to the constant.</lq>

    <p>'=' '{' <i>cexpr</i>[',' <i>cexpr</i>2...] '}'</p>

    <lq>For arrays of constants this assigns the value to each element. There
    must be the same number of <i>cexprs</i> as there are elements
    defined.</lq>

    <p>'=' '"' ... '"'</p>

    <lq>For an array of constants, this assigns each ASCII value between '"'
    and '"' to one element of the constant array. Unlike C, there is no
    terminating NUL.</lq>
  </body>
</topic>
