<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="d0e2352" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Tasks</title>

  <body>
    <p>Syntax:</p>

    <codeblock>          TASK <i>identifier</i> [ '(' parameter list ')' ] IS
             <i>statement_block</i>
          END TASK</codeblock>

    <p>JALv2 introduces the concept of TASKs which are a form of co-operative
    multi-tasking. Unlike preemptive multi-tasking, where control passes from
    one task to another automatically, control will only pass when a task
    specifically allows it. Due to the architecture of a PIC, true
    multi-tasking is very difficult. Tasks can only be started by the main
    program, or within another task. Tasks are started with:</p>

    <codeblock>          START <i>identifier</i> [ '(' parameter list ')' ]</codeblock>

    <p>When a task is ready to allow another to run, it executes:</p>

    <codeblock>          SUSPEND</codeblock>

    <p>To end the task, simply RETURN or allow the control to pass to the end
    of the task. If tasks are used, the compiler must be passed the argument,
    "-task n," where n is the number of concurrent running tasks. Remember
    that the main program itself is a task, so if you plan to run the main
    program plus two tasks, you'll need to pass in, "-task 3".</p>

    <p>Finally, only one copy of the body of a task should be run at a time.
    The following would be an error because it attempts to run two copies of
    task1 at the same time:</p>

    <codeblock>          START task1
          START task1

          FOREVER LOOP
             SUSPEND
          END LOOP</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
